In this chapter we're going to be looking
at Python input, output.
Primarily, output being how do we print
data to the screen,
and input being how do we receive data
from the keyboard.
In the first lesson, we're going to look
at simple uses of the print function.
Then in the second lesson we'll look at
how to do print
re-directions so that we can print to a
device other than the screen.
And then finally in the third lesson,
we're going to look
at how to get data into our programs from
the keyboard.
So with this first lesson we're going to
use
the interactive shell to do some very
simple printwork.
So we'll open that up with Python.
The first thing I wanna do is create a
couple
of variables, and then to display the
value of a variable,
we simply put that variable inside
parenthesis and send that as
an argument to the print function and it
prints the value.
So we can do that for really any type of
data.
So if we created a list, like so.
As you can imagine, it works with any
type of data, or data structure that we
provide.
And of course it works with literal's as
well, as well as literal expressions
such as concatenation or arithmetic, and
any
other type of expression that you can
imagine.
You can also use the comma to print out
the data as a tuple, like you see
right here where we've said print, word,
comma, number,
and it printed hello and 100 inside a
tuple.
You notice it's a tuple by the open and
close parenthesis that you see there.
If you tried to print the same data, using
concatenation, then you see a problem
because Python does not like you try to
concatenate a int, to a string expression.
So what we needed to do right here, was we
needed to use these string function,
str, to convert number to a string, and
then it works just fine.
The only other example I wanna provide in
this lesson,
because again, I don't wanna get into too
many arcane details.
What we need to be able to do is just see
how to print regular data.
We do, though, wanna look at one other
little more advanced topic, and that's
format strings.
A lot of time you'll see that covered in
a chapter or section on strings, I decided
to
save it for print since format strings
really only
come into play when you're trying to print
data.
So for example if we have some data like
this, and we wanna display that
in one string, what we might do is create
what is called a format string.
If you've done any C or C++ programming or
even Java, although it's not so prevalent
in Java, you'll have probably worked with
format
strings, especially if you've done any C
programming.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to create
a format string, and I'm gonna just give
it a name,
and a format string will consist of
different ways of telling
Python how to display data, in fact, what
data is coming.
So here I am saying that the first piece
of data is a string.
That's what the percent string sign is,
and then I'm going to put
a colon because I want that to separate
the name from the grade.
Then the next piece of data, again we
bring with a percent sign, is going
to be a floating point number that I want
to display to two decimal places.
So you see the percent point to f saying,
it's
a floating point number and we wanna
display two decimal points.
And that's all for the string, so we stop
it there.
Then I use the percent sign, and then I
say, what data do I want to provide?
Name and grade, and that becomes my
record, and then if I
say print record, then it prints that data
using the format string.
Format strings can get quite a bit more
complex than this.
I wanted to show you the simplest example,
and then you can certainly go to
the Python documentation if you want to
see
more advanced examples of how format
strings work.
We won't be working with format strings in
this course, other than to demonstrate it
right here.
My goal here is to cover all the
introductory material that you need and
a much more interested in processes of
computation rather than how to display
data.
You can always go to the documentation to
get some better
ideas about how to display the data once
you've processed it correctly.
So that wraps up this lesson on the print
function, and
we're ready to move to the second lesson
where we going to
look at how to perform print redirection,
where we send data, not
to the screen but to some other device,
such as a file.